README.md, before:

Ushahidi Toolkit

This site is the nascent toolkit for the Ushahidi v.3 release in 2014. It is being built based on previous work plus lessons learned over the past several years of deployments.


About Flex, the theme for this site

Flex is a responsive, flexible, [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) theme.

The theme is based on the website [The Development](http://thedevelopment.co).

View a demo website [here](http://the-development.github.io/flex/).

Installation
To use this theme, you would do so like any other Jekyll setup:

1. Install Jekyll: `gem install jekyll`
2. Fork this repository to your machine
3. `cd` to the forked directory and run `jekyll serve --watch`
4. Celebrate and dance.

Contributions

In general, there are no strict rules for contributing, only that your code is clean and well structured.

For bugs:
- To merge a fix, you can simply open a pull request.
- To report one that is not yet fixed, open an issue.

Feature requests:
- **Always** open an issue first before implementing and proposing a new feature. This is only so I can make sure the theme doesn't become bloated with too many features. This way, I can determine if an idea is something that makes sense for the theme's design.

If in doubt, you can always ask me on Twitter: [@jeffxmn](https://twitter.com/jeffxmn)

License

Flex is licensed under the MIT license:


The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Jeff Martin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

added Manual text to README

README.md, after:

Ushahidi Manual

This site is the nascent User Manual for the Ushahidi v.3 release in 2014. It is being built based on interviews with the core Ushahidi developers, interviews with the Ushahidi community, and readings of previous documentation (and its shortcomings). It will be built here in the open over the summer of 2014.

________

This site is built on Jekyll/GitHub Pages, using the theme Flex. Per the MIT License for Flex, the following text is cited in this README file.

________
About Flex, the theme for this site

Flex is a responsive, flexible, [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) theme.

The theme is based on the website [The Development](http://thedevelopment.co).

View a demo website [here](http://the-development.github.io/flex/).

Installation
To use this theme, you would do so like any other Jekyll setup:

1. Install Jekyll: `gem install jekyll`
2. Fork this repository to your machine
3. `cd` to the forked directory and run `jekyll serve --watch`
4. Celebrate and dance.

Contributions

In general, there are no strict rules for contributing, only that your code is clean and well structured.

For bugs:
- To merge a fix, you can simply open a pull request.
- To report one that is not yet fixed, open an issue.

Feature requests:
- **Always** open an issue first before implementing and proposing a new feature. This is only so I can make sure the theme doesn't become bloated with too many features. This way, I can determine if an idea is something that makes sense for the theme's design.

If in doubt, you can always ask me on Twitter: [@jeffxmn](https://twitter.com/jeffxmn)

License

Flex is licensed under the MIT license:


The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Jeff Martin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
