---
layout: post
title: Outline for Manual
cover: 
date:   2014-06-24 12:00:00
categories: posts
weight: 2
---

This outline is a preliminary sketch of what the Manual and Toolkit might look like. 

# Introduction
The manual would begin with a story: a demonstration of how Ushahidi has been used successfully, but also a story that illustrates the challenge of telling a story with the data. The new capabilities in v3 to tell a story--to give testimony--will form the core the explanation of the manual and toolkit. The manual will begin with the challenges of giving testimony with v2 of the software. We will focus on the new interface and the emphasis on simplicity that the Ushahidi team has adopted in both the code and the UX.

## What is Ushahidi?
Comparing the mission of Ushahidi as an organization versus Ushahidi v3 as a platform.

## Why v3 and what took you so long?
Explaining the process of how v3 came about. Multiple interfaces. Security. Uncle Bob.

## So you want to deploy Ushahidi? 
Before you install the software, you need to ask some questions...

### What are your needs?
A section expanding on the original opening of the toolkit:

#### What are the objectives of your project?
#### What data do you need to support your objectives?
#### Who is able to contribute to building those data?
#### How will these audiences contribute to building the data?
#### Why will these audiences contribute?
#### What risks do these audiences face when they contribute?
#### How will you monitor and approve posts and messages?
#### How will you verify the data?
#### How will use the data?
#### How will you inform your contributors about how their data was used?
#### How will you curate the data?

### Which Ushahidi Product meets your needs?
Matrix of Crowdmap, Ushahidi v3, Red Carpet, and Custom Built. treasure, time, tech, talent.

---

# Installing the Software

## New Installation
Installing v3 from scratch
### Linux/Unix flavors
### Windows/WAMP
### Mac OSX/MAMP

## Migration from v2
Migrating from v2 to v3, with detailed explanations.

### Migration from Crowdmap
Migrating v2 Crowdmap to v3 Ushahidi

---

# Configuring the Software
Configuration of v3 software requires setting up the environment as well as setting up the software around your campaign.

## Configuring the system settings
Basic system vars.

## Security
Managing the security of your deployment.

## SMS Framework
Setting up your SMS provider with security issues in mind.

---

# Designing a Deployment

## Planning your campaign

### Objectives
### Scope
### Data Collection

## Staffing your campaign
### Building a team
### Planning mobilization

### Creating Users
#### User Types and Permissions
#### Adding Users
#### Managing Users
#### Sidebar: Passwords and Security
#### Groups

## Designing the Data Flows
### Mapping Expected Outputs
### Building your Data Model
### Building Custom Forms
### Building Tags
### Planning for Verification

---

# Launching a Deployment

## Social Mobilization and Citizen Engagement
Software does not generate a crowd, people do. 

### Types of campaigns
#### Elections
#### Crises
#### Human Rights Monitoring
#### Health
#### Water/Sanitation
#### Poverty
#### Sensor Networks

### Ways of collecting data
#### Social Media
#### SMS
#### Web Reports
#### Paper and Fax (Data Entry)

## Importing Data
### Social Media as sources
### Messages in v3
### Setting up Messages
### Setting up Filters

## Creating a Training Program
### Teaching Ushahidi to your staff
### 

## Collecting Data from Citizens
### Posts in v3
### New interface for managing posts: one map
### Managing Posts
### Protecting Contributors
### Protecting Privacy

## Sets
New v3 curated sets of messages set by dynamic filters.

### Curating a Set
#### Filters
#### Creating a Set
#### Managing Sets
#### Sharing Sets

---

# Managing your Deployment (for Story Telling)

## Managing your team
### Supervision
### Organizational Designs
### Time Management

## Feedback Loops with engaged citizens
Connecting your staff and the crowd

## Verifying your data
QA, cross-verification, etc. 

## Workflows
v3 workflows and your team

### Creating a workflow in v3
### Managing workflows in v3
### Typical Bottlenecks

## Security and Privacy
A section on management of the security and privacy issues around the platform and the data.

---

# Telling your Story

## How to tell a story with Ushahidi data

## Views and Maps: Telling a Story
### Building a map visualization
### Building graph/chart visualization
### Narratives

## Ushahidi as an API
Ushahidi v3 is built as an API to the underlying data. Here's how to harness that power.

### What is an API?
### Basic architecture of the Ushahidi API
### Calling the API
### Resources and API Documentation

---

# M&E on your Deployment
How to know your story is accurate and effective?

## Designing your M&E
## Ushahidi v3 Stats
## External Stats
## Using Ushahidi to monitor Ushahidi
