---
layout: post
title: Outline for Manual
cover: 
date:   2014-06-24 12:00:00
categories: posts
weight: 2
---

This outline is a preliminary sketch of what the Manual and Toolkit might look like. 

# Introduction
In Swahili, ushahidi means "testimony." During the 2008 Kenyan elections, violence rocked the nation...

The manual would begin with a story: a demonstration of how Ushahidi has been used successfully, but also a story that illustrates the challenge of telling a story with the data. The new capabilities in v3 to tell a story--to give testimony--will form the core the explanation of the manual and toolkit. The manual will begin with the challenges of giving testimony with v2 of the software. We will focus on the new interface and the emphasis on simplicity that the Ushahidi team has adopted in both the code and the UX.

## What is Ushahidi?
Ushahidi as testimony during 2008 Kenyan elections. Grew team to support the platform. Built new platforms. Today, Ushahidi might best be described as an organization that builds tools to empower communities.

The original tool, Ushahidi SMS platform, has grown. Release v3 is a rethinking of the original idea. Simplified code. Simplified interface. Could even function as a headless API. Start to continued simplification and renewed engagement.

## Why v3 and what took you so long?
Explaining the process of how v3 came about. Multiple interfaces. Security. Uncle Bob.

## So you want to deploy Ushahidi? 
Before you install the software, you need to ask some questions...

### What are your needs?
A section expanding on the original opening of the toolkit:

#### What are the objectives of your project?
Would be great to get into a visual framework

#### What data do you need to support your objectives?
#### Who is able to contribute to building those data?
#### How will these audiences contribute to building the data?
#### Why will these audiences contribute?
#### What risks do these audiences face when they contribute?
#### How will you monitor and approve posts and messages?
#### How will you verify the data?
#### How will use the data?
#### How will you inform your contributors about how their data was used?
#### How will you curate the data?

### Which Ushahidi Product meets your needs?
Matrix of Crowdmap, Ushahidi v3, Red Carpet, and Custom Built. treasure, time, tech, talent.

---

# Installing the Software

## New Installation
Installing v3 from scratch

### Kohana Framework

# Dependencies

### Linux/Unix flavors
Installation on *nix

### Windows/WAMP
Installation on Windows

### Mac OSX/MAMP
Installation on Mac OSX

## Migration from v2
Migrating from v2 to v3, with detailed explanations.

### Migration from Crowdmap
Migrating v2 Crowdmap to v3 Ushahidi

---

# Configuring the Software
Configuration of v3 software requires setting up the environment as well as setting up the software around your campaign.

## Configuring the system settings
The core system settings

### Deployment Information
URLs, name, mission

### Localization
Language and time zones, RTL

### 
### Customizing the Interface
### 

## Security
Managing the security of your deployment.

## SMS Framework
Setting up your SMS provider with security issues in mind.

---

# Designing a Deployment

## Planning your campaign

### Objectives
### Scope
### Data Collection

## Staffing your campaign
### Building a team
### Planning mobilization

### Creating Users
#### User Types and Permissions
#### Adding Users
#### Managing Users
#### Sidebar: Passwords and Security
#### Groups

## Designing the Data Flows
### Mapping Expected Outputs
### Building your Data Model
### Building Custom Forms
### Building Tags
### Planning for Verification

---

# Launching a Deployment

## Social Mobilization and Citizen Engagement
Software does not generate a crowd, people do. 

### Types of campaigns
#### Elections
#### Crises
#### Human Rights Monitoring
#### Health
#### Water/Sanitation
#### Poverty
#### Sensor Networks

### Ways of collecting data
#### Social Media
#### SMS
#### Web Reports
#### Paper and Fax (Data Entry)

## Importing Data
### Social Media as sources
### Messages in v3
### Setting up Messages
### Setting up Filters

## Creating a Training Program
### Teaching Ushahidi to your staff
### 

## Collecting Data from Citizens
### Posts in v3
### New interface for managing posts: one map
### Managing Posts
### Protecting Contributors
### Protecting Privacy

## Sets
New v3 curated sets of messages set by dynamic filters.

### Curating a Set
#### Filters
#### Creating a Set
#### Managing Sets
#### Sharing Sets

---

# Managing your Deployment (for Story Telling)

## Managing your team
### Supervision
### Organizational Designs
### Time Management

## Feedback Loops with engaged citizens
Connecting your staff and the crowd

## Verifying your data
QA, cross-verification, etc. 

## Workflows
v3 workflows and your team

### Creating a workflow in v3
### Managing workflows in v3
### Typical Bottlenecks

## Security and Privacy
A section on management of the security and privacy issues around the platform and the data.

---

# Telling your Story

## How to tell a story with Ushahidi data

## Views and Maps: Telling a Story
### Building a map visualization
### Building graph/chart visualization
### Narratives

## Ushahidi as an API
Ushahidi v3 is built as an API to the underlying data. Here's how to harness that power.

### What is an API?
### Basic architecture of the Ushahidi API
### Calling the API
### Resources and API Documentation

---

# M&E on your Deployment
How to know your story is accurate and effective?

## Designing your M&E
## Ushahidi v3 Stats
## External Stats
## Using Ushahidi to monitor Ushahidi

---

# Appendix 1: Rethinking Ushahidi

## Design Challenges from previous deployments
Diagram with feedback loops around the design challenges

### Citizen Engagement Models
As Ushahidi migrated beyond the basic collection of reports from eyewitnesses to models which collected data in more structured ways, users applied the platform to ever more complex use cases. The collection of evidence for human rights advocacy and litigation has very different requirements than monitoring stock levels of drugs in health facilities. Similarly, the aggregation of social media, SMS, and web reports from a population responding to a crisis or conflict might require de-duplication, translation, geolocation, verification, and collation into reports that capture both individual requests for aid and paint a larger picture of a very dynamic situation. 

Several organizations extended the Ushahidi v2 codebase to meet these needs. In the process, they discovered myriad limitations. In May 2012, a team from Small Surfaces performed a review of these issues. These include

### Reports
### Verification
### Visualization
### Workflow
### Analysis
### Reporting

See Small Surfaces report here.

## Ushahidi v3
Ushahidi v3 is not a perfect answer to every design challenge. Rather, it is a flexible platform for the community to build upon. 

Ushahidi as an API
Ushahidi code meets Uncle Bob


The Small Surfaces design project.

Report was the standard unit of collection and analysis. But what is a report? 
